---
published: false
---
Not much new has been done. First, about a few bugs.

**Bug with new pickaxe and sling**

If a pickaxe was used and broken, when buying a new pickaxe, it also remained broken. With a sling it was identical, when buying a new sling it also did not have stones to use.
Reworked the mechanism. Now the new pickaxe is a new pickaxe and the new sling is ready to be used.
This week I continued to finish the functionality for the stealth class.

**New changes and features for the stealth class**

The Invisibility Potion was previously prepared, but it gave infinite invisibility, which could only be removed with a Visibility Potion. An illogical advantage for the player.
The player is now invisible for a limited number of turns. ([gif](https://img.itch.zone/aW1nLzg2MjY4NjUuZ2lm/original/mMv3QF.gif)) When you enter stealth mode, a timer is displayed on the screen. After the timer expires, the player becomes visible (the visibility potion was not removed from the game, it might still be useful for something).
In one of the previous reviews, I wrote that I would add darts for stealth class. The first was the sleep dart.
If you use a dart on the devil, then he falls asleep for n-th number of moves. At the moment, I'm thinking about how to make an animation or some other effect to show that the monster is really sleeping. Now everything just looks like this. ([gif](https://img.itch.zone/aW1nLzg2MjcyMDkuZ2lm/original/qU6mzZ.gif))

**What's next?**

- Make new features for game classes. A shield for a warrior and a poison dart for stealth class.
- Add poisoning effects, etc. (for the player as well).
- Plan the minimum set of content for the prototype.
