---
published: false
---
_No, Mario, the rat tail quest is in another dungeon._

This week was not up to the quest, but there were many caves.

## Into the caves
I made a similarity of a cave generator to a drunkard walk last time and I won’t refuse from it, but I really wanted real caves.
Thus, two ideas were born: inhabited cave and cave to explore

## Inhabited caves
Everything is simple here. Once generated, the player can always find a way out to another level by simply exploring the cave.
The generator itself turned out to be interesting, in addition to the monsters on the map, there are many spawns with rats, traps and spider eggs. I talked about the idea about them in one of the first posts. When killed, 5 spiderlings jump out of the egg.
Made scaling for damage from traps, now each subsequent trap will be less damage to the player. Let's just say that the player has already adapted to the traps and copes with them better. Plus, i don't want the player to die too quickly.
In addition to traps and spiders, our old familiar demons and rats are also found in the caves. No promises, but I will try to record a longer video with the study of one of the caves by next Saturday. In the meantime, a few gifs.
1) Meeting with a spider egg ([gif](https://izrl.xyz/images/spider-egg2.gif)).
2) Journey through the cave ([gif](https://izrl.xyz/images/cave-explore2.gif)).

## Cave to explore
For this type of caves, I specifically made it so that the sections of the cave are not connected to each other and, in fact, the player starts from a trap. Around the wall and you need to somehow get out.
Calm down, the player knows what to do. In front of him from the start lies a pickaxe of increased strength. ([screenshot](https://izrl.xyz/images/pickaxe-cave.png))
Using a pickaxe, the player must be able to correctly dig tunnels and find a way out.([gif](https://izrl.xyz/images/mining-cave2.gif)) 
A mining pickaxe, which is given to the player, is stronger than a regular one, which can be bought from a merchant, but it does not last forever. Therefore, the meaning of the mini-game on this type of map is to be able to strategically predict a successful "dig" and emerge victorious or stay in this cave forever.

## Bugs
In the process of exploring the caves, there were finding several small bugs. One - NPCs fell into traps and spent them without taking damage. Spider eggs "ran" after the player. But these little things have been fixed.

## And now about rat tails
The quest is in progress and as soon as it is ready, I will gladly share it with the community.

_That's all for now._
