---
published: false
---
_Another week behind. The project is already two months old. Time flies fast._

**Shield for Warrior class - done**

As I wrote earlier, if a player wants to play the role of a warrior with a shield, this is now available. If the shield is worn, then it blocks all damage from monsters, but each shield has a durability limit, as soon as the limit ended out, the shield breaks and the damage goes to the player’s health. ([screenshot - shield GUI](https://img.itch.zone/aW1nLzg2ODI0ODMucG5n/original/P7lPxD.png))

After the shield, I moved on to further quest work. In one of the previous posts I described the first quest in the game. But it is logical to add to the game not only banal quests of the form - kill 3 demons, but also something more interesting.

After brainstorming, it became clear that the game lacked quest items as a type of item. Such items can drop from monsters, they can be exchanged for prizes from NPCs, transferred between NPCs, etc.

**Quest Items - done**

One of the ideas was that quest items should not end up in the player's active inventory, but they should be saved in the general list of items that the player owns. For that is how they can then be tracked for use.

I divided the common inventory into two different ones. One for non-quest items only. And the other is only for quests (you can't use items in it either). Whether the quest inventory will be available to the player in the prototype (and later on the beta/release version), I don't know at the moment. Maybe yes, maybe not.

As a result, now the quest items themselves have been created, they can be raised or received as a reward. It remains to make a slightly different drop system. I want quest items to be harder to get than regular items.

Having created quest items, I asked myself a question. Okay, but will the player be able to knock out quest items, as before, finding single mobs?

The idea with monster spawn points has been around for a long time, and only now hands have reached it.

**Spawn points - done**

Spawn points made like separate type of entity. If the player is next to such a point, then the monsters we need begin to appear next to him. In order not to overload the resources of the game, I made the number of monsters still limited.

Their good, because spawn points have their own char, you can make them whatever you like. Invisible, cave entrance, small mink, etc.

The first spawn point was the rat hole. As soon as the player approaches the rat hole placed on the map, a whole rat pack immediately jumps out of it. Looks very funny. ([gif](https://img.itch.zone/aW1nLzg2ODI0OTEuZ2lm/original/8H%2Fgzi.gif))

As a result, for the first quest with quest items, it remains to complete the new drop system and, in principle, the quest will be implemented. According to the plot, you will need to collect 10 rat tails, and for what - you will learn from the following reports.

_Thanks to everyone who has been reading and supporting my reports for two months now, without you the project would not have developed so quickly._