---
title: Changelog 04/30/2022
published: true
---
**Chests and their contents**

In the first post with the announcement of the game there was a list of features that I would like to do in the near future. One of these features were chests. And now their time has come.

As a basis, it was decided to take the shop, previously implemented in the game. The mechanics remain the same. As with the merchant, the player approaches the chest and accesses its contents using a hotkey.

One of the problems I encountered with the implementation is that it's easy to make items free for a chest, but you also need to make them not infinite. You can buy a lot of items in the store, there would be enough gold, but in the chest each item is in limited quantities.

The modified and final version of the chest does not have this problem. The player opens the chest - takes either all the items in turn or only those that are interesting. The selected items are removed from the chest and appear in the player's inventory.

Added a little more randomness for the contents of the chest. So one chest entity at the time of creation can contain different items to choose from or even be empty.

There are thoughts to make - a mimic-chest, but have not yet figured out how to make a chance of substitution.

**What about rat tails?**

I managed to create the "rat's tail" quest item itself and prescribe a separate drop option for quest items. I want quest items to be harder to get than simple items.

_That's all for this week so far._
